You break the world into traditional and
alternative. Good thing about
traditional, so things like natural gas
and coal, uh, is it's reliable 247 365
energy. Unfortunately, it has the
emissions profile we don't like. Uh,
alternatives, let's just call it wind
and and and and solar. Um, has the
emissions profile we want, but it's
intermittent and variable. You know, if
you're a data center CEO, you're feeling
pretty good about your business today.
You kind of wake up with night sweats
about the power going out, right? You
cannot lose power. You have a very
expensive metal shell that's cooling
servers and providing electricity and
energy which means hey uh I can't take
the intermittency. I've got to use the
base load. Nuclear is sort of the one
resource that can kind of serve both
masters. It is 24/7 365 low variable
cost very high capacity factor and it's
also pretty clean.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy [music] Aloway.
>> Tracy, I saw an interesting headline
this morning.
>> Just one.
>> Good point. There's I saw a million
interesting headlines, but one that sort
of caught mine. It was sort of market
moving is there was this comment from uh
Jensen Wong. He was at a conference, the
CES conference, and he was talking about
how in the future, I guess, their chips
are getting more efficient as chips tend
to do that they may not as need as much
intense cooling um uh cooling
infrastructure or cooling equipment for
future data centers. And a bunch of
those like sort of infra those cooling
names like train technology, they're
like really getting clobbered because we
know those have been like some of the
big the big winners from the AI boom.
>> I can hear all the private equity shops
that bought HVAC. outfit screaming from
over here. No, it is a really
interesting headline, right? Because you
think about this as a technology space.
AI is technology, but it has this huge
infrastructure aspect attached to it.
Infrastructure investors from what I
understand, you know, historically have
tended to like relatively stable
returns, right? you invest in it because
you expect this to be a pretty reliable
business, but because you have
infrastructure that is now tied to tech,
it seems like there's a pretty big big
risk that like every year or every two
years or maybe even months now, there's
going to be some huge tech upgrade that
just changes the equation entirely.
>> That's a good point. Like I think like
the first time years and years ago I
started hearing about infrastructure
investing, it was like, oh, we bought a
toll road, right? Or we bought an
airport. airports by and large they're
you know they don't get disrupted very
much or a toll road like the basic
business of some of these things has um
remained stable but yeah to your point
especially now that there's such a link
with uh tech just like the sort of
volatility of what's going to win out or
what's needed seems seems highly
uncertain. Yeah, and of course the other
obvious thing going on at the moment is
everyone's talking about AI valuations.
Is the buildout getting ahead of itself
and are all these companies actually
going to be able to generate enough cash
flow that backs up all this investment
spend? You know the other thing too and
it's something that we've observed which
is if you go back to like infrastructure
investing is not a new thing by any
stretch but you go back to the 2010s and
so much of the money that was made then
it was sort of like financial financial
engineering financial opportunities who
had dry powder at a time when everyone
is broke and so forth. And one of the
themes that's recurring over and over
again these days is just like to make
money it feels like you really have to
get your hands dirty. physical things of
all sorts and physical things have just
been in our face constantly since co and
then it's accelerated because of there's
so much public money pouring into the
space so uh governments around the world
really opening up the tabs and then you
know we then over the weekend we had
we're recording this uh January 6th by
the way obviously um the Maduro no the
Maduro news and so then there's all this
stuff it's like oh who's going to
rebuild all of that oil infrastructure
sure if that oil is ever going to
profitably be tabbed. Like this is just
sort of the physical world is sort of
like the story of our time.
>> Are people talking about public private
partnerships yet? I feel like this is
another cyclical thing that just pops up
every once in a while. I'm going to do
let's bring in our guest and while we do
that I'm going to do a news trend search
to see where we are in the public
private partnership cycle.
>> Let's bring in our guest. Well, we
really do have the perfect guest uh who
uh long lots of experience in this
realm. We are going to be speaking with
Tyler Rosen. He's a portfolio manager,
global listed infrastructure and natural
resource equities at Cohen and Steers.
So, we're going to talk about all this
stuff. Uh Tyler, thank you so much for
coming on Obl.
>> Thanks for having me. I'm real excited.
>> What's your job? What do you do? Why are
we talking to you? What's Cohen and
Steers? Let's uh let's get that out of
the way.
>> Yeah. So, Cohen and Steers, we're a long
only asset manager. We primarily invest
in real assets and alternative income
strategies. So, we're, you know,
managing mutual funds and ETFs, active
ETFs and separate accounts for
institutional investors. uh focused on a
couple niche things um primarily real
assets uh strategies uh here and now. So
that's things like listed REITs which
we're really well known for uh
commodities uh and then where I where I
help uh is our global listed
infrastructure and our natural resource
equity strategies. So these are long
only strategies uh investing across in
infrastructure. It's you know we call
the the cute subsectors. So that's
communications things like cell towers
data centers and satellites utilities.
So this is electric gas water
renewables. Uh transportation the toll
roads that you talked about you know
toll roads airports marine ports and
freight rails. And then e energy is is
midstream pipelines and so forth. So we
we try to look at everything and and
give investors uh exposure to what is
really a dynamic and exciting place.
>> So how busy have you been over the past
year or two?
>> Uh it's been very busy. I mean my joke
used to be that I invest in all the old
economy stuff. Uh now it's like the new
economy stuff and it's the stuff that
people are really excited about. And I'd
say we've seen a lot of these trends
kind of coming for a long time and we've
talked about them for probably a decade,
but they've really only surfaced kind of
to the front page of of Bloomberg every
morning uh in the last 18 months. And I
think that's really exciting. Um and and
we've been really busy because there's
lots of new opportunities. We see
investment cases in traditional
utilities, tons of new alternatives,
nuclear, renewables, pipelines, uh lots
of new businesses, capital formation,
great opportunities.
>> And what's the balance of power actually
like between investors and the companies
that need investment at the moment
because I imagine it could go either way
right now. Like the the energy needs for
data centers are absolutely massive. So
it needs tons and tons of capital but at
the same time a lot of investors as
we've been discussing have been very
very eager to identify opportunities and
get their foot in the door.
>> Yeah. I mean in the world that I live in
which is the sort of hard asset economy
I'd say um having capital is very
important but we're now at a place in
the cycle where the investment needs are
so big that it's creating pretty big
challenges for companies. And take the
utility sector as an example. Um 18
months ago if you said hey utility capex
is going to accelerate and earnings
growth is going to accelerate every
utility investor would say that's great.
Um we've gone to such a level now that
it's actually a really nuanced answer.
You know there is so much capital
required in utility investment today
that it's really causing affordability
problems and some utilities we think are
really going to struggle because
elections are being won about utility
bills. Yeah. Other utilities on the
other hand actually you invite data
centers into your service territory and
it lowers bills and so today I actually
think um from an active management
perspective the dispersion in terms of
outcomes and investment opportunities is
as wide as it's ever been. So so that's
a really good thing for us as investors
and I think it's not going to end. You
know we think these are structural
secular trends that are here for a while
and um you know we we don't think this
is a fad from an infrastructure
investment perspective. Hey, just real
quickly, data centers lowering bills. Uh
people that headlines like that don't go
viral. What what what's that all about?
>> Yeah, it's very nuanced. So, if you
think about the utility business model,
you know, very simplistically, the
utility invests in its rate base. So,
let's say their rate base is $10
billion. They're allowed a return on
equity. Maybe it's 10%. They earn a
billion dollars. This is very simple
math. Isn't how it exactly works, but uh
then they charge their cost to customers
and that's their revenue requirement.
what we as bill payers pay. Uh you
double your rate base. If you don't
increase your customers, you could
actually double your costs. And that's a
lot of what's happening here in New York
City and Washington DC and other places.
There are some utilities that are long
generation or they're long power. So
just think about that very
simplistically. You've got a utility,
it's got a rate base and inside that
rate base, every rateayer is paying for
power that's not actually being used.
>> Bring a data center into that service
territory. the data center itself might
consume that power and you as the rate
payer are not actually going to be
burdened by that cost in your monthly
bill.
>> And so for us, we think it's really
important you've got to understand the
regulation, who the commissioners are,
what their power systems are like, their
generation, and so forth. And there are
examples of data centers being really
good for both the utility and the
customer. But that's again it's very
nuanced and it really depends on where
you are and sort of what your your your
asset base looks like.
>> Okay, talk a little bit more about that
because we've done episodes on the
political risks involved with the data
center buildout and this seems to be
something that is really gaining
traction especially as we go into the
midterms and we see politicians sort of,
you know, laying down their positions on
this particular issue. But how feasible
is it that you could get a data center
that could actually in some way improve
the electricity market in a particular
state or location? And then I imagine
that you have to have a lot of room,
right, to have a data center. You have
to have water access and things like
that. It can't be it can't be good
everywhere, right?
>> Oh, definitely. We're we're not saying
it's good everywhere. I mean, I'd go the
opposite and say it's really actually
bad in a lot of places and then it's
really good in some places. And so, uh,
it really depends on all the things that
you just laid out, which is, yeah, do
you have the generation, do you have the
water, do you have everything else? What
you're seeing now in utilities is, um,
data center tariffs that are being kind
of negotiated and going through the
utility regulation process today. And
we've seen some examples in Wisconsin,
for instance, where um, effectively the
data center has zero impact on the local
rateayer. you know, the the the
hyperscaler in Wisconsin has agreed to
guarantee a return on a rate base for
the capex that the utility is spending.
It's not going to impact the rate payers
there at all. And so, it's kind of done
off of the the the sort of back of the
utility customer. There's other places
though where they're still working
through those utility contracts or, you
know, we'll see, but hey, you could have
big stranded asset risk. Utility is
going to spend a couple billion dollars.
They're going to make sure that the data
center has power and electricity. Maybe
the data center leaves five years from
now and then everybody's going to be
stuck with a stranded asset. So no,
definitively I mean take a step back.
You know, we think the world needs more
energy. We think the world needs more
power. It's going to service data
centers. It's going to service
industrial customers, residential
customers, sort of everything. EVs, you
name it. Uh but that's going to come
with the tension of rising bills. And
you know, that's going to be a challenge
for some places and an opportunity for
others.
>> I'm curious. We'll get into all all
these details and stuff, but I'm
actually have a lot of I'm very curious
about how you work and how you figure
this stuff out. I have to imagine for as
much for as long as you've been working
on this, there must be new things every
day because as Tracy mentioned, we've
it's gone from this sort of like a lot
of stayed stable operations to high-tech
and there's so much uncertainty. How do
you work? Like how do you work? Do you
how do you learn about things? Do you
have a team of analysts etc. Talk to us
about like the process for wrapping your
heads around so much novelty.
>> Yeah, so you know we've got a great
team. Um on our infrastructure team
there's four portfolio managers and sort
of we kind of break the world up by
geography. We have one PM in in in
London and who helps us with our
European infrastructure investments and
then three here in New York with varying
expertise and then we have seven
analysts and they're sort of our boots
on the ground. I mean Conan Steers was
founded as a real estate investor back
in 1986 and our perspective was you know
be on the ground be walking properties
be touring assets because you can find
you know unique insights if you do that
sort of thing. So we want to have this
big team that is sector specialists that
really understands the utilities, the
regulation behind it, what's going on in
local politics, uh going and touring
assets, talking to local professionals
and trying to find kind of where we can
see unique insights and where hey the
regulation's getting a lot better or
there's this unique contract that we
think is going to be really beneficial
to this small local utility. Uh or hey
um what's going on in New Jersey? What's
going on in Virginia in in in New York
City? how's that going to affect things
as well? And so, um, I think it's
important to have this team do really
detailed fundamental work. And for us as
investors, I mean, our CIO, he would
characterize us as thematically informed
relative value investors. So, let's find
good themes that are underappreciated
and underpriced and then find the best
investment opportunities to take
advantage of those. And if you do that,
we think you can generate really good
investment results.
>> My favorite form of sellside research
remains the analyst going on field
trips. So now I'm imagining everyone's
staring at a data center in New Jersey
or something. I know you're not sell.
But um speaking of that though, how do
deals actually land on your desk? And I
say that realizing that I'm talking as
if someone's like mailing out offer
letters to you and it's actually landing
on your desk. How do deals or potential
opportunities get to your screen?
>> So we're public markets investors. So
we're just trying to find listed
securities and figure out which ones we
think are best positioned for the next
one year, three year, five years. And so
we're constantly invested. So as we
raise capital via open and mutual funds
or through our active ETFs or through
separate accounts, it kind of comes in
and then we have our core strategy
that's invested at all times. And for
us, it's about, you know, being
positioned in a way that we think will
do a lot better than the benchmarks that
we're measured against. And so for us
it's sort of your traditional equity
research function where we are
constantly trying to make sure that we
are leading edge in terms of what's
happening in markets and identify hey um
we think that this thing is going to
happen to the North Dakota utility as
they invite a local data center customer
there that's underappreciated by the
market. And so it's the the fundamental
boots on the ground stuff that everybody
does and we just think that we've got
some unique uh you know processes and
unique ways to to tap it. At what point
did it sort of dawn on you or dawn on
the market etc that a lot of companies
that we had long associated with being
sort of classically cyclical companies
are secular can be secular winners now
I'm thinking of like a caterpillar which
you just sort of imagine by and large
here is a company whose fortunes rise
and fall with GDP right the economy is
growing well it's they're probably going
to have a lot of people are going to be
buying equipment to break ground you get
a recession, people buy less of it and
then something changed and you look at a
chart of like a Caterpillar, it's like,
okay, this is no longer a cyclical
company. When did this start to like
take hold or sort of dawn on people that
there's some there's something was
changing?
>> Yeah. So, so I'd start with so I have
kind of the dual function where I
oversee help oversee our infrastructure
strategies and our natural resource
equity strategies. And I'd say on that
side of the house, so that's investing
in things like uh the entire energy
value chain, the metals and mining value
chain, the a value chain. you've seen a
lot more of like the caterpillar type
transitions that you just alluded to
which is hey this hypers cyclical
business that suddenly is being valued
like it's not as cyclical. So I'd start
with um things always have cycles and so
uh it might be perceived as not cyclical
now but maybe it will become cyclical
again in the future but our view would
be hey these cycles are actually higher
and deeper and lasting a lot longer and
one of the big drivers has been you know
a lot of the natural resources world has
been capital starve for a while and in
that process many sectors and industries
have consolidated quite a bit and so the
expertise has really acred to just a
couple players and if If you think about
that and you say, "Hey, um, you know,
one of the things that we believe about
natural resources is that we've exited
what we we talked about as the era of
abundance and we've entered the era of
scarcity. You know, we just don't have
enough of all the stuff that we need for
the economy to grow." and the companies
that actually facilitate uh ending that
scarcity, there's just not as many of
them because again there's been massive
consolidation in these sectors that we
think will be persistent, will allow
them to earn above average returns, have
a lot more predictable growth for a long
time and then we'll reassess in the
future and maybe the competition will be
invited back and they're going to go
back in the other way. But but we think
it's really early in a lot of these
trends and and the sort of secular
growth and the reduction in volatility
of that growth is very different now
than it was 10 years ago.
So I take the point about consolidation
and that you're working on you know
pretty long timelines but how do you
guard against you know the possibility
that as with everything infrastructure
related um and energy related certainly
it seems like we always end up with over
capacity at some point in the cycle how
do you uh avoid that
>> um can't avoid it we we that will happen
right like uh on the commodity cycle uh
you know the cure for low prices low
prices the cure for high prices high
prices same thing on the infrastructure
side although infrastructure again it's
it's um generally assets that are
monopolistic either by regulation or by
competitive dynamic you know you think
about the US freight rails um
>> you can't really build a new one and so
the competition there is going to come
from new technologies like autonomous
trucks and other things you think about
things like airports even utilities I
mean these are local monopolies so in
infrastructure that sort of overbuild I
mean it would happen on the power side
and and it will happen at some point
like you look what happened with shale
pipelines in North America right in 2010
we thought oil production was going to
go up a lot
>> we built a lot of pipelines by 2015 2016
>> and oil prices declined we didn't need
all those pipelines in the short term
caused a lot of turmoil and so uh again
to answer your question directly can't
avoid it but we as investors our job is
to try to sidestep it understand when's
the market getting too uh excessive in
terms of its expectations
Tell us about right now uh January 2026
and let's within the realm of say US
energy and US energy infrastructure. We
all know the headlines and we've done a
million episodes on them. There's so
much demand for electricity. All right,
I get that point. But talk to us
literally like specifically about what
are we seeing right now? What is the
math that you see out there? And maybe
to frame it like how would this
conversation be different even in say
January 2024 or January 2025.
>> Perfect. So, so let's actually um let's
not start with the US, let's start with
the world, okay?
>> Because uh I think it's let's start as
big as we can go and then we can drill
down. Um
>> you know a lot of people for the last
like six years when they talked about
global energy demand we think they did
it the wrong way. They focused on the
supply side where they said hey the
government has these targets or we have
this sort of goal to have uh global
warming be xyz. this is what the supply
would have to look like to satisfy that
world. And we said, you know, um why
don't we start with demand? You know,
what do we think global energy demand is
going to be in the next two decades?
Then let's figure out how we're going to
supply it. So global energy demand, it's
a pretty easy model. It's kind of three
factors. You know, the first thing that
you care about is global population
growth. Okay?
>> All else equal, more people, more energy
is consumed. I'm not talking oil or
coal. It's energy in aggregate. The
second thing that you think about is the
global economy. You know, bigger
economy, all else equal more energy
consumption. The third one is pretty
tricky and that's the uh energy
intensity of economic growth. Uh and
that is hey how good are we at
converting an energy input into a unit
of economic output. Uh so what we did a
couple years ago is we said hey let's
try to predict those things in the very
long run. The the first thing is, hey,
population growth, um, we think it's
decelerating, but it's still positive.
So, in 2040, there's going to be a lot
more people in the world than there were
in 2024. Uh, economic growth, we think
it's going to slow, but still be pretty
positive. Maybe it used to be 3%, now
it's 2.7. That means more energy demand.
And then we said, hey, let's assume we
get a lot more energy efficient. We're
going to be a lot better at consuming
and converting energy into economic
growth. That's a comfortable assumption,
you know, two years ago because
government policy was mandating it,
consumer preferences were mandating it,
uh, and and also technologies were
getting better. When you put those three
things together, what you saw was global
energy demand rising from about 178,000
terowatt hours, which is, you know, big
number, but 178,000 to 220,000 in 2040.
That's a big increase in global energy
demand. And again, that assumes a big
increase in energy efficiency. So then
you you peel back one layer. How does
renewables fit into this? Well, uh we
also want to reduce coal consumption. So
if you think about this, hey, we're
going from 180 to 220. We want to reduce
the amount of coal we consume.
Renewables, we need to add 60,000
terowatt hours or 55,000 terowatt hours
of of supply. It's a huge number. That's
basically recreating the entire global
crude oil industry that's been around
for 100 years in the next 16. So what's
changed in the last 12 months? That
global energy demand assumption for
2020, sorry, for 2040 has risen. Our
confidence that we're getting less
energy intense has gone down because a
lot of this economic growth is very uh
energy intensive. And so we've been in
this energy addition world. This need to
produce really more of everything. And
it's only becoming more uh uh of a of an
issue and a challenge and an opportunity
for the energy industry.
>> Actually, that reminds me, I wanted to
ask you, can you talk about the
decarbonization initiatives from some of
the hyperscalers themselves and how
you're
>> judging some of those efforts? Yeah.
>> Yeah. You know, um a couple years ago, I
So, there's sort of like three competing
factors when you're thinking about
energy. So one is um you want the energy
system to be stable, you want it to be
clean, and you want more of it. And I
think five years ago it was clean,
stable, more in that order. We want
clean energy, we want it to be stable,
and we want to have more. Uh today, it's
it's kind of flipped, right? We need
more. It has to be stable. And then we
do want it to be clean, but we can't
necessarily sacrifice the clean for the
more and the stable part of it. So, I
think everybody is well-intentioned and
doing the right things, which is, hey,
um, let's try to transition the dirtiest
stuff away, move from coal into natural
gas. Hyperscalers who have a lot of
cash, let's try to re-industrialize the
nuclear economy. Let's continue to make
investments in SMRs, in existing
reactors, turning them on. Let's try to
get more geothermal and other things in
the, hey, let's get more of it. Let's
make sure it's stable. Let's make it as
clean as possible. And then once we've
kind of gotten there on the buildout, we
can start to shut down the stuff we
don't want and really just rely on the
stuff that we do want. But again, um the
the the three factors have have changed
and uh I think that that's really
shifted market perceptions on what the
energy industry should look like.
>> Just have they acknowledged that they've
changed or is this just a quiet they've
changed but we're not get they're
certainly not putting press releases
about it but you know how is it just you
know changed? I think it's um I think
it's it's actually a little bit more
acknowledged than people would say out
loud. Like I I get yelled at sometimes
when I talk about specific stocks, but
there's a UK-based major energy company
that you know went one way and then
they've very publicly gone the other
way. Yeah. And I think um you know
that's that's normal when you see sort
of market conditions shift like this.
>> Random question. The year 2040, are we
still going to be using coal in this
country? Um in our model, our 2040 model
would say, so um our model is global. So
so this country versus the world, let's
let's just focus on the world. Okay.
>> We have coal supply or sort of coal
generation cut in half by 2040.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> I think that's ambitious. Uh I would
hope that it was zero. Yeah.
>> But the sort of energy pragmatists would
say, hey, um around the world, coal will
be relied upon for a really long time.
it will be a a much lower percentage of
energy markets and we think it will sort
of decline over time. But again, the the
idea of zero coal around the world by
2040 I think is highly unlikely.
>> Since we're talking about energy on a
global scale, talk to us about what
you're seeing or expecting out of China
because this is the other source of a
million headlines nowadays or at least a
million headlines with very very large
numbers in them about what China is
doing in terms of building out its
energy capacity. Yeah, I think um you
know part of it is you think about the
global uh geopolitics and you say like
well why are some places more
aggressively pursuing alternatives
versus traditional and you know why did
Europe do as much renewables as they did
and a lot of that has to do with taking
advantage of what you're endowed with or
not. So, so here in North America, we
have plentiful natural gas and crude oil
and our need to invest in renewables uh
from a cost perspective is different
than Europe where they are an importer.
And so the way to sort of convert from
being an importer to self-sufficient is
to harness what you've got. If you've
got a lot of wind and you've got a lot
of sun, you're going to want to
overinvest there. You know, I think
China depends on the world for uh energy
supply and they're trying to reduce that
and they want to be more independent.
They're going all in on nuclear. they're
generating or they're investing massive
amounts in their nuclear economy, coal
generation as well. Kind of everything
in I think just an effort to to be more
self-sufficient. But that's not China
specific, right? That's kind of like
every country right now is is doing a
similar thing and trying to, you know,
be a little bit more self-sufficient in
a postcoavid, post-Russia Ukraine,
rising geopolitical tension sort of
world.
>> I think I'm uh very skeptical that we're
going to have a nuclear renaissance in
the US. Like I know there's tons of
headlines and I'm sure there's a few of
those places that are going to get
restarted. I'm not an expert. So it's
it's just my gut. Is am I off the mark?
What do you think? What are we looking
on?
>> So I think it really depends on what you
mean by a nuclear renaissance. So So
some people
>> give us a time frame, Jeff.
>> Like okay, here's my
I don't even Why am I making
predictions? I don't know anything about
this stuff. But like I would be
surprised like if you know if I were in
Poly Market or something I would imagine
that there's not uh what's that plant in
Georgia that came online?
>> The Vogle
>> the Vogal plant like I don't think
there's going to be another Vogle in the
next 20 years.
>> Okay. So so let me um I I disagree. I'll
kind of talk you through why but but let
me let me tell you about what the
nuclear renaissance and again I'm
talking kind of global as opposed to
just US but we can definitely talk about
US too. So if you think about what's
gone or take take another step I like to
take a lot of step backs as you can
tell. Um
>> are we going to talk about the galaxy
>> wide [laughter]
no data centers in space in this
conversation I promise. Um
>> no actually now that's a good I'll ask
you about [laughter] that at some point.
Yeah.
>> Uh okay. So so why why do we why are we
talking about nuclear? Yeah. Right. It's
pretty simple. Um you break the world
into traditional and alternative.
>> Good thing about traditional so things
like natural gas and coal uh is it's
reliable 247 365 energy. Unfortunately,
it has the emissions profile we don't
like. Uh alternatives, let's just call
it wind and and and and solar. Um has
the emissions profile we want, but it's
intermittent and variable. You know, if
you're a data center CEO, you're feeling
pretty good about your business today.
You kind of wake up with night sweats
about the power going out, right? You
cannot lose power. You have a very
expensive metal shell that's cooling
servers and providing electricity and
energy, which means, hey, uh I can't
take the intermittency. I've got to use
the base load. Nuclear is sort of the
one resource that can kind of serve both
masters. It is 247 365, low variable
cost, very high capacity factor, and
it's also pretty clean. And so that's
kind of why we're talking about nuclear.
There was an episode maybe a couple
months ago where you said, "Hey, nuclear
batteries." Yeah,
>> I'd rather
>> I was about to ask you the same question
actually.
>> We'll go there. I think I mean it's all
about energy storage. The whole thing is
like, "Hey, how do I store energy to use
it when I want it?" Like coal is
effectively an energy battery. Mhm.
>> Natural gas is an energy battery.
There's just no batteries for wind and
solar that are viable today. But I'd
love to solve that problem and that
would that would help in a lot of ways.
But back to the nuclear
>> can't hold solar energy in your hand.
>> You can't I I wish you could and may
well one day you will but but we think
it's going to take quite a while to do
that. But um okay so the nuclear
renaissance um we've been shutting down
nuclear generation capacity around the
world for the last two decades. So step
one is let's
>> including in famously sunny Germany
>> everywhere. So, so step one is like,
let's just not shut it down. Um, we
think we're in like the seventh inning
of that ball game. Like, we're we're
we're not shutting it down.
>> Okay. That's some that's something.
>> Yeah. So, so phase two is like, well,
can we turn on any of the stuff that we
recently turned off? You know, we're in
like the fifth inning of that game. Uh,
I think that sort of uh is going from a
slow bleed to hey, flatten and then slow
growth. So, the next couple years are
about, hey, turning on ThreeM Island in
other places. Um phase three, which
would be I think we're in the second and
third inning and we're going to start to
see some acceleration here, would be the
sort of brownfield
inside the fence nuclear facility
buildout. Hey, you worry about nimi
issues, site supply, security, safety. I
think that's been talked about here as
well. We do think that that's going to
uh start to pick up, but but that's like
a 2032 to 2035 in service. And then we
talk about SMRs and thorium and other
opportunities. I I think that'll happen,
but it's like 2035 to 2040. So, that's
still a renaissance to me. We're taking
something that we were sort of allowing
to slowly melt and we're sort of
refreezing it and then we're building
it. And that's that's okay.
>> Just yes or no. By the year 2040 in the
United States, will we
>> see
>> you guys are going to start a poly
market contract?
>> Will we get another vote?
>> I've got this like internal bet, so I
have to say yes. Uh but there is a
caveat. Um [clears throat]
>> no utility will do it themselves.
>> Yeah,
>> there is I'd say zero chance that a
utility will say, "Hey, we're willing to
do a green field new nuclear facility
with no cost overrun risk, but I think
the cost overrun risk will get covered
by the government." So, um, we're
starting to see some of this stuff you
we're seeing it across the natural
resources economy, right? Where the US
government is taking direct equity
stakes and they're having a more
directly interventionist approach to all
of critical minerals and resources. So,
what would I do if I was sort of the
energy zar? I would say, hey, um, I'm
the US government. I'm going to backs
stop guarantee cost overrun risk for 10
nuclear generation facilities across the
US. I'm going to make sure they get
built. I'm going to sort of shoulder the
excess cost burden and then maybe at the
end of this I'm just going to sell it to
the highest bidder. So let's just make
up the numbers. Maybe it costs a hundred
billion dollars for the US government to
do that. Um maybe those 10 facilities
get sold for $50 billion and the the
taxpayer has taken a $50 billion loss.
But here we've got 10 new generators
providing sort of cheap and clean
energy. Maybe they can sell it for 150
and actually sort of you know help the
the deficit situation. But so so again
to answer your question I think it's
going to happen but I mean one of my key
messages it's not going to happen alone
like these supply chains are not going
to come about because of market forces
you know you're not seeing a reaction in
copper production you're not seeing a
reaction in uranium mining you're not
seeing a re reaction nuclear generation
without direct government sort of
intervention has a little bit of a
negative connotation but direct
government um
catalyst you and and I but I think that
that's going to happen and we're
starting to see it.
>> Um I want to press you further on that,
but this reminds me I did pull up the um
chart of the number of times public and
private partnerships are being mentioned
in news stories and uh yeah, spiking
into late 2024 and 2025. So we're we're
back. Um but okay, talk talk to us a
little bit more. Why doesn't the market
like signal work for something like
uranium or you mentioned copper as well?
>> Yeah, I I think um honestly these are
sort of markets that have been sort of
forgotten by investors and um companies
are still being penalized for uh
increasing capex and increasing supply.
So,
>> so it's kind of the shale story that
sort of
>> the shale stories like so, so you look
at sort of um at the end of last year,
some of the major mining companies
talked about their 2026 capex. Most of
them sort of cut capex expectations or
at least relative to consensus came in
below. That's weird, right? Copper
prices all-time highs, gold prices
alltime highs. Shouldn't the miners be
uh increasing their capex and inviting
that supply response we talked about
earlier? Uh the investors just revolt.
They say no mas we we
>> they want the discipline.
>> You've destroyed so much value and they
did right. Shale destroyed a lot of
value 2010 to 2020. And so um I just
it's not going to happen naturally. Um
and maybe that's okay because you know
these these management teams I mean they
should continue to be held to the
discipline. Um but we do need the supply
and so that that's why I think that the
government is going to try to get it get
it moving and and we've seen examples of
that, right? You saw some rare earth
stuff last year, lithium stuff last
year. Obviously, the big nuclear um uh
you know, backs stop of of contracts and
so forth that was announced in the end
last year. A lot of it is not well
defined, but we're going to start to get
some more definition behind this stuff.
>> You can't blame the shareholders. I
mean, it must be so sick. You have these
prices shooting through the moon. It's
like, why not just take the cash,
>> you know? I mean a as a long-term uh
oriented shareholder as a shareholder
>> as a shareholder
>> you know I think listen at these prices
returns on a lot of projects actually
look pretty good but you worry about
administration changes and you worry
about the supply response and honestly
these companies did really poorly for a
long time and so um the spreadsheet math
might say hey you start drilling again
but the sort of history would say no no
the returns need to be way better to
justify that And and I think it's a
rational response by the investor base.
But I think step one is like people need
to start looking at the again the old
economy stuff again, but it's the new
economy stuff. People need to be looking
at natural resources stocks. They need
to be looking at infrastructure stocks.
They need to be feeling good about them
providing capital to these companies and
then you will get that supply response.
But but again, it's it's early in the
cycle. On the topic of natural resources
and maybe investor reluctance, we're
recording this on January 6th and the
big news in the markets is of course
what happened over the weekend in
Venezuela.
I'm sure that's not your particular area
of expertise, but you know, as an
infrastructure investor, when you look
at a place like Venezuela where we hear
they need billions of dollars of capital
to get the oil industry up and running,
what do you think about that situation?
>> Yeah. So let me just talk about it
strictly from like an investor
perspective and how you would sort of
think about that. Um being an
infrastructure investor, we care a lot
about one risk that very few people
spend a lot of time on. So So if you
were to say, "Hey Tyler, you talked
about the data center CEO staying up at
night for losing power." What keeps you
up at night? For us, it's regulatory
risk, right? You're investing in
airports and utilities and things like
that that are governed by a regulator.
We worry about surprise. And you you get
regulatory surprise here, right? You
look at what happens with ill uh
utilities in Illinois. You look at
what's happening with FK and as they
sort of change things. So we spend a lot
of time
>> I don't know anything about utilities in
Illinois. [laughter]
>> Well, like uh hey um the utilities spent
some capex and they said, "Hey, we we
want a higher return and we want to get
uh that in our rate base." And the
regulator just says no.
>> You know, and and so you you talk about
our boots on the ground investing. It's
it's trying to make sure that we
understand those very difficult things
to figure out before everybody else
does. So take it to Venezuela. Like if I
was to make a large foreign direct
investment there uh from an
infrastructure and resources
perspective, I would really really want
to understand the legal constructs
surrounding that.
>> And that's really challenging in the
midst of regime change. And so, um, I'm
very hopeful, like I think everybody
would say, "Hey, we're hopeful that
things get resolved quickly and then you
sort of figure it all out very fast."
But it's going to take a while, I think,
before you actually start to see some
investments because, you know, as an
infrastructure investor, the the risk of
expropriation, nationalization is very
high. And so, you don't want to go and
suddenly see your assets stranded there.
So maybe that answers your question, but
again, a lot of it is about
understanding regulation and law and and
what's happening in politics and so
forth.
>> Well, I'm also curious. I mean, we had,
you know, President Trump is obviously
very excited about the opportunities to
rebuild that infrastructure and for
American companies uh to come in and be
part of that. But oil, West Texas, it's
at $57 a barrel. I'm curious, you know,
setting aside the obvious, highly
uncertain regulatory environment of
Venezuela. I don't know what like
pencils out at 57. I'm curious, you
know, you mentioned pipelines like
during the 2010s or sort of, you know,
there's a lot of anti-pipeline politics
and I assume that the current
administration is much more um you know,
green light for pipelines, but who wants
to build new pipelines at these prices?
>> Yeah. So, it's I'll use my favorite uh
acronym, but I've got to give credit to
Paul Sanki at Sanki Research because
he's the one that coined it. But, so uh
a decade ago, we had a NIMI world, which
is like not in my backyard.
>> That that world transitioned to a
bananas world.
>> Bananas is build absolutely nothing
anywhere near anything, [laughter]
>> right? So, uh the bananas world existed
from like uh 2018 to 2024. And when I
say bananas world, that's about utility
uh the ability to build infrastructure,
not any any other bananas out there,
right? um that does feel like it's
changing a little bit in that hey um
there's starting to be a little bit more
sort of certainty and sort of uh based
in DC uh uh desire to build stuff and so
you're starting to see a little bit of
pipeline construction activity uh
heating back up you we went from a world
where hey we're never going to build
another pipeline in North America I
think that's changing it's going to be
get a lot more pragmatic than it was in
2010 to 2015 but you're starting to see
this sort of willingness to make these
investments but Again, it comes because
the sort of uh
>> but did they math out like what pipeline
is economical at current prices?
>> It's all a function of what the customer
is willing to pay, right? And if you've
got natural gas prices in the high
threes and if you've got sort of wide or
oil differentials and other things like
a lot of the pipeline activity that
we're seeing today is natural gas
pipelines feeding the data centers.
>> Ah,
>> their willingness to pay is pretty high.
And so, uh that's really where we're
it's it's not an oil pipeline world
today. It's a it's a natural gas
pipeline world. We go from we have no
bananas to yes, we have no bananas.
[laughter]
>> I love that. I love please enjoy my uh
1920s cultural references there.
>> So going back to US energy and
electricity again everyone you every
headline or everyone person is like you
know we have the chips we have etc.
Energy is the bottleneck. You hear that
over and over again and I think uh
Jensen Wong said that again today in
that uh CES energy is the bottleneck
except we all know this right? So in my
mind it's like oh it's all priced in but
like as an investor
what parts of this energy story to you
still feel underappreciated or where
there's still opportunities in a story
where there's like literally anyone is
aware of this fact the electricity
constraints.
>> Yeah. So I I'd start with you know we we
agree electricity is constrained the
demand uh is going to keep rising. I
would note it's not just data centers
like we spent a lot of time thinking
about US energy markets and you know
they went from zero growth in terms of
electricity demand from 2007 to 2020.
>> Uh they've been growing like one and one
and a half% recently. We think it's
going to go to two and a half% per year.
Doesn't seem like a big number but going
from 0% to two and a half% in a big
industrial uh system is is a huge one.
only about half of it is data centers.
You know, there's lots of electricity
demand coming from EVs and from the
industrial system and so forth. So, but
but where do we see the opportunity? Um
I'd start with um certain utilities. So,
uh utilities today actually trade at a
lower multiple than they did a few years
ago and growth rates are a little bit
higher than they used to be. So, so
that's like a little bit of an odd uh of
an odd um uh thing to see. Um however
what we think is hey the average utility
is going to see some challenges from
affordability issues and from regulation
but the best utilities are not trading
at a lot higher multiple than the
average utility and their growth rate
differential is way better. So to put
some numbers around it
>> you know eight years ago you had to pay
an 11% premium
>> to get 1% better growth. So the average
utility group was going to grow six
best-in-class utility was going to grow
seven. you had to pay an 11% higher
multiple for that trade. Today, the
fastest growing utilities only trade 6%
more expensive. So, actually cheaper
relative to the average.
>> They're going to grow 2% more. So,
instead of 6 and a half, it's going to
be eight and a half.
>> That's pretty odd, right? Um, you're
paying lower absolute multiples. Do
>> you have a theory for what though?
>> Um, I think people are worried about
regulation. Okay. I think people are
worried about rising interest rates.
They're worried about affordability. And
what you're going to see is the um pack
will separate over the next three years.
So it's rational that sort of the world
has compressed in the way that it has
from a utility perspective. But I think
over time those that are able to execute
will really be rewarded. Outside that I
mean the picks and shovels types
companies to the data center and
re-industrialization buildout. We we
still see a lot of opportunity. You
multiples are up but they are becoming
more predictable. Their growth rates are
accelerating. It's it's more structural
in nature. Who are some of those
companies? I mentioned Caterpillar, but
that's like
>> Yeah, I mean the engineering and
construction companies that are help
building the large scale infrastructure
and so forth. Um would would definitely
fall in that bucket. You know, we look
at some of the companies that are like
aluminum smelters and so forth. Again,
these are highly consolidated industries
relative to where they were, you know, a
couple decades ago. And so, you know,
this is like it's it's the gold rush. Um
who made all the money in the gold rush?
It was the Levis and the picks and
shovels companies. And I kind of think
that's where we are. you might get the
best like absolute returns in some of
the direct ways to play this, but they
might come with a lot more volatility
and we think the sort of at least
riskadjusted returns are are more in the
the picks and shovels.
>> Speaking of volatility, very quickly,
one of the interesting things that
happened last year in data center world
was we had that big outage at the CME um
which was the result of an outage at one
particular data center that was run by
an operator called I want to say Cyrus
one. Yeah, I think that's the name.
Yeah.
>> How how are you incorporating? You know,
you talked about the CEO staying up late
at night worrying about exactly this
scenario, but do you as an investor in
the infrastructure have to worry about
operational risk as well? And then how
do you actually assess that?
>> Yeah, we we do. I mean, um let's use
pipelines as like the best example,
right? Um if you own a company that owns
oil pipelines and they have an oil
spill, like that is a big problem. So,
so we get a lot of questions on hey, how
do you think about ESG and integrate ESG
and so forth? And one of the key things
that we do is we think about the
incentives and we think about how these
companies are doing maintaining their
assets and what their local shareholder
relationships are like and what their uh
the integrity of what they own and
operate uh are because yeah with
infrastructure you know you operational
risks have major asset impairment uh
risks with them. And so again, for us,
it's this big team around the world
trying to do what we can to talk to not
the CEO, but the plant managers and the
sort of next rung down and and ask one
CEO what he thinks about the assets of
another company and are they maintaining
them well and try to get some insights
there because yeah, it's a it's a key
risk, something that that we worry
about. So, we're kind of in a post
banana world in the sense that from the
DC perspective, you know, I think the
administration clearly has a much more
liberal attitude towards approving
various things. On the other hand, we
and we've talked about this recently on
the show quite a bit. Um, the local
backlash particularly today at a centers
suddenly people really anxious about
that. we see these town hall meetings
going viral and there's misinformation
about there uh some things um when you
think about like the utilities that are
the rapidly growing ones the ones for
whom there's perhaps an opportunity
because they don't trade at a premium
that um uh is uh is consistent with
their growth potential. Do you worry
about that aspect and do you do much
time thinking about like yes on paper we
know there's tons of plans to build more
here etc. But will it actually happen
given the realities of local politics?
>> Yeah. I mean I'd start with you know
this there's been a lot of data center
backlash and is it appropriate or not? I
mean there are some utilities whose
bills went up 15% last year.
>> Yeah.
>> So and then you think about a data
center company um you know that doesn't
create any jobs in the local market. I
mean, there's construction jobs, but
then once the data center is running,
it's just kind of like a big empty shell
with some refrigeration and some power,
and you're not really doing a lot for
the local economy. So, your your your
sort of local residential customer uh
who's paying 15% more and is not seeing
any sort of economic benefit to the
local area from that, that is inviting a
reasonable response from the regulator
to say, "Hey, we actually it's not in
our best interest to do this." And so
yeah, we're we're we spend a lot of time
on who is on the utility commissions.
Are they elected? Are they appointed?
Because because that can matter. What
has been the bill pressure?
>> I take it the elected ones are more
sensitive towards
>> uh all else equal. Unelected commission.
you're saying, "Hey, they want to stay
elected, and so they're going to do
things that are more uh beneficial to
the local uh electorate than than
someone that's government appointed or
governor appointed who would, you know,
maybe do something that's, hey, I know
the bills might go up a little bit, but
but we actually want to invite this." I
mean, just just to to put the magnitude
of the opportunity. So, there's a
utility in the Midwest. It's been around
for about a hundred years. It currently
has a uh system that's about 11
gigawatts. So, one gigawatt is about a
million people. It's like the city of
Denver. So this Midwest utility 11
gigawatts took him 100 years to get
there. They currently have data center
demand to build 15 gigawatts.
>> Whoa.
>> Think about that, right? 100 years ago.
>> What's the name? I want to look this up.
What utility is it? Can you
>> I I get yelled at by
>> All right, fine. We'll we'll we'll look
it up. We'll look it up.
>> We'll look it up separately. Um
>> we'll use data powered AI platforms to
figure it out.
>> Yeah, I I some they'll kick me under the
table if I if I if I give too many
specific stocks, but um no, you just
think about that, right? 100 years ago
to 11 and and like by tomorrow they want
another 15.
>> That is really expensive. And so you're
seeing this tension and I think um I
think that's that's reasonable.
>> Do you play Power Grid ever? Do you know
that game?
>> No, but I feel like I should.
>> It's a board game. [laughter] It's a
board game where you're in charge of
supplying electricity to various cities.
It's kind of fun. I
>> I played the the board game Pandemic in
like late 19 and and look what that led
to. So maybe I'm a little bit scared.
[laughter]
It was your fault.
>> Well, play power grid and then we can
all enjoy an efficient electricity
system. Maybe maybe things will change.
>> That was a great conversation. Tyler
Rosenlick, thank you so much for uh
coming on OddLot. So, let's stay in
touch. Now, we're going to use our AI
skills to backwards figure out what that
you
>> going to draw energy from the data
centers to crunch the numbers
clawed or whatever.
>> Yeah, Tracy, I really enjoyed that. It
does feel as though if you're in the
right place right now, there's just a
mountain of money coming. I mean, who
knows if you're like going to get it,
but you know, between all of u you know,
he talked about every country wanting to
have more domestic uh energy security,
the secular trends, etc. If you're in
the right place, government spending
more money just feels like you could
stand in the right way of an absolute
fire hose of money right now in this
space. I mean it feels to me and you
know he kind of said it but the
government is the key risk here the
regulatory risk and also I take his
point about even though maybe the
numbers pencil out at current commodity
levels if you look at future demand and
stuff like that
>> it might not work because your
assumption is well you know in 3 years
we'll have a new administration or maybe
in another 10 years the pendulum will
swing back towards clean energy or
something like that. So that to me seems
to be the big risk.
>> Uh just on the Venezuela point, I mean
it's going to be a hard sell. I mean
imagine who wants to pony up a hundred
billion dollars and granted shared
between a bunch of different companies
presumably.
You're it's still the same old regime.
Um there hasn't been you know and then
all the uncertainty there and then the
fact that you know oil just isn't as
isn't as valuable as it was several
years ago. Who are the brave sellside
analysts that are going to go on a field
trip to Venezuela in order to inform
their research on buying like PDVSA
bonds or something?
>> Yeah, that's what we need. We need a
sellside report like cuz the the thing
that's fun about the reports that you
like is they often take a lot of
pictures. Oh yeah. So when it be we need
someone to do a report like go into the
pedas facilities like just someone takes
a thousand photographs of like here is
the state of this
>> produ this facility this
>> go watch an oil tanker being loaded up
in Venezuela and tell us everything that
you see
>> how is it how efficient is it and so
forth what it would actually take to
repair it to
>> I feel like I need to add a disclaimer
onto that. Please do not go to Venezuela
and do all this on our account
>> on our account. No, we are not asking
>> we're not asking anyone to go to
Venezuela.
>> We are asking someone in a professional
capacity whose job would be to go there
anyway to please include a lot of
pictures in the uh cellside report, but
we're not asking you to do it on our
behalf.
>> Was that a big enough caveat? Are we
going to get from the lawyers?
>> The um the number we got to um reverse
engineer what that um utility company is
in the Midwest because those numbers are
staggering. I mean, the fact that um
what is it 11 gig? By the way, can I as
an aside here?
>> Yeah.
>> Um energy math, I have a the hardest
time wrapping my heads around it.
>> I was thinking that like measuring one
gigawatt as like powering Denver was
actually a really really useful way
about it.
>> Except the problem is I already I always
forget that. But okay, one gigawatt
Denver. One gig Denver.
>> Just tattoo it onto your arm, Joe,
because you know that's a useful fact
that you're probably going to be
referencing for many years to come. And
a gigawatt is different than a gigawatt
hour. And so these are like separate
things and so forth. But the idea that
here a 100red years took them took them
100 years to get to 11 gigawatts and now
they're projecting 15 gawatts more. I
mean staggering staggering numbers. And
I guess it makes sense why literally
every company in this space is saying
it's not chips. It's not it's the
energy. On the other hand, maybe we have
some incredible technological
breakthrough, a deepseek moment for
chips, and these chips use, you know,
100th of the electricity that could
happen.
>> Well, I mean, again, going back to how
we started the episode, you kind of saw
a hint of that potential today. So,
>> such a fascinating space.
>> Absolutely. Uh, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the
OddLotss podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our
producers, Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman,
Dashel Bennett at Dashbot, and Kale
Brooks at Kaleb Brooks.
>> And if you want more OddLotss content,
you should definitely check out our
daily newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.com/odlotss.
>> And you can chat about all of these
topics, including energy 247 in our
Discord, discord.gg/odlotss.
And if you enjoyed this conversation, if
you like it when we talk all things
energy, if you want us to figure out uh
what Midwest company it was, then please
like this video, leave a comment, or
better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
[music]